Automated Workflow for Agent-based Installer (#1067)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/agent-installer/automated-workflow-for-agent-based-installer.md

- Describing a mechanism to add and remove nodes from the cluster after
  it is installed is left to a future enhancement.
- Generating image formats other than ISO is left to a future
  enhancement.
- Booting hosts via PXE is left to a future enhancement.
- Creating minimal ISO images with a separate rootfs is left to a
  future enhancement.
- We are not currently considering replacing the IPI installer or
  assisted installer SaaS.
- Describing an end-to-end solution for users without their own
  orchestration tool is left to a future enhancement.
- Collecting telemetry data for deployments is left to a
  future enhancement.
- Details of securing the communication between agents and services to
  ensure only desired hosts join the cluster are left to a future
  enhancement.
- Details of a workflow for deploying in settings with DHCP assignment
  of IP addresses is left to a future enhancement.
- It is not currently a requirement that the downloadable form of the
  installer support installing multiple versions of OpenShift. We will
  address the underlying requirements behind that request in other
  ways, which will be discussed elsewhere.

## Proposal

> We propose to extend the `openshift-install` binary with a new

Reviewer: Some discussion has been happening in a separate FAQ document. An important point came up about validations for optional operators that I think is relevant here. Paraphrasing, it was expressed that pre-installation validations that are specific to operators that handle storage, virt, etc. are more acceptable for the agent-based installation that is available on console.redhat.com, but would be less desirable for an installer that is shipped inside an openshift release due to coupling of requirements across products.

I think that's an important issue to address, especially if deciding to deliver this new install capability through the `openshift-install` binary is going to limit its value to users. Here was my comment:

> The main reason that a small number of operators are selectable on console.redhat.com is for the pre-install validations. If the hardware specs are not sufficient to run ODF, virt, etc, we want to tell the user upfront rather than let them go through a cluster installation, try to install and use the operator (disconnected operator installation is no fun...), and only then fail after all that time and work. The value of ensuring user success upfront was determined to be worth the price of maintaining a small list of validations for a few specific operators. IOW a small bit of coupling improves the UX significantly.

> Since a primary use case here is to enable a user who wants to establish a local point of management within their disconnected environment, validating their complete intent upfront seems to make sense. If putting this tool "inside OCP" precludes that sort of thinking, maybe that's not the best delivery model for the use case.

Were other delivery models considered and/or ruled out? What about shipping this as part of multi-cluster engine, where it could provide a complete story for creating a first local point of management? Or maybe we can still provide that complete story even while shipping as part of the OCP payload?

Author: That was an early decision that we captured in an internal document but didn't repeat here. It basically came down to wanting to integrate the various tools, rather than create another standalone thing. I'll share that doc with you.

sub-command, `agent create-image`, for generating a bootable image
containing all of the information needed to deploy a cluster.  A
command line tool avoids issues with prerequisites for deploying a
long-running service, and can be run on a low-resource host such as a
laptop or even on a host at a different site before deployment begins.

Most enterprise grade hardware includes a management controller that
can present an ISO image to a host virtually, allowing the host to
boot from the image remotely. Hypervisors such as kvm and vSphere also
support booting from ISOs. Therefore, we will concentrate on that
format and approach first. Building minimal ISOs with separate root
filesystems or images that can be used with hosts that PXE boot will
come later.

We propose to leave up to the user's orchestration tool the
responsibilities of managing and storing the images, serving them on
the network, and especially configuring hosts to boot them. This gives
users the flexibility to perform those operations in any way they
like, with whatever tool they prefer. A design for an all encompassing
approach based on tools provided entirely by Red Hat is left for a
later enhancement.

> The `agent create-image` command will need file-based inputs to

Reviewer 2: It wouldn't hurt to run `s/create-/create /` over this doc, since we decided somewhere to do e.g. `agent create image` for consistency with the installer.

Author: See ef85ba16

and we will reuse that technique (and code).

The image generated by the `agent create-image` command will be an RHCOS
live ISO with embedded Ignition config containing systemd units to
start the assisted service, agent, network, etc. running in containers
pulled from the OpenShift release payload. Using RHCOS ensures that
the same OS that will run OpenShift boots on the hosts. Using
containers in the release payload means that when the payload is
mirrored all of the tools needed to run the agent based deployment
workflows will be present in the mirror.  More details about the
various services follow below.

The image generated by the `agent create-image` command will also
contain the data in the input `install-config.yaml`,
`agent-config.yaml`, and other files. That data may be converted to
another format (we anticipate using the ZTP CRDs, since those map to
the assisted-service API calls). The intermediate format will be
considered another layer of control for the cluster creator, just as
the manifests written by the `create manifests` sub-command are. The
cluster creator will be able to generate those intermediate files with

> the sub-command `agent create-manifests`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should block on this, but we will probably want to find another term since the manifests created by `agent create manifests` have a wholly different role to those created by the regular `create manifests`.

Author: Let's work that out with the installer team when we write that command and then come back and update this enhancement.

and OpenShift APIs directly, but they will have the option of using
the command line tool.*

For the fully automated workflow, the steps a user might normally
perform such as approving agents for installation or triggering the
installation will be handled by a new client running as a service on
node0. The client will read the user's inputs from files included in
the image and interact with the assisted-service REST API on localhost
to drive the deployment. For the purposes of this document, we will
refer to that service as a single entity called `create-cluster`,
although in practice we may divide some of the steps into separate
tools.

### Actors in the Workflow

**infrastructure admin** is a human user responsible for infrastructure
within the data center, such as an image registry, networking, etc.

**cluster creator** is a human user responsible for deploying a cluster.

**orchestration tool** is intended to be a software component provided
by the end user for managing the overall deployment process, including
any steps for which the installer is not responsible. Those steps may
also be performed by **cluster creator** if no software component is
available.

> 

Reviewer 3: I am not sure what `Those steps may also be performed by **cluster creator** if no software component is available.` means. Do you mean the steps of deployment can be handled manually if no automation exists?

### Test Plan

We will implement CI jobs to verify deployment of clusters in all
three topologies (single-node, compact, and HA) using VMs simulating
bare metal hosts. We will configure the jobs so that they run for
changes in the dev-scripts, installer, assisted-service, and
assisted-agent repositories to ensure that regressions are not
introduced.

We will implement end-to-end CI jobs to exercise the
parallel/serial/upgrade suites running periodically as release
informers/blockers to ensure that clusters created by the agent-based
installer meet the expectations of all OpenShift clusters.

We will use unit and functional tests on the installer repository to
test the image generator using different types of inputs.

### Graduation Criteria

We will use a fork or branch of the installer to prototype this work,
and then merge it into the installer repository protected by a feature
flag. The minimum viable version of the new feature will be exposed as
tech preview (deployment failures may not receive immediate attention,
but clusters successfully deployed using the tool will be fully
supported).

#### Dev Preview -> Tech Preview

- Ability to utilize the enhancement end to end

> - The minimum viable version of the new installer may only work in

Author: ```suggestion
- The tech preview version of the new installer may only work in
```

reviewers:
  - "@avishayt"
  - "@celebdor"
  - "@lranjbar"
  - "@mhrivnak"
  - "@patrickdillon"
  - "@pawanpinjarkar"
  - "@rwsu"
approvers:
  - "@zaneb"
api-approvers:
  - None
creation-date: 2022-03-17
last-updated: 2022-03-17
tracking-link:
  - https://issues.redhat.com/browse/AGENT-10
see-also:
  - "/enhancements/agent-installer/agent-based-installer.md"
  - "/enhancements/installer/single-node-installation-bootstrap-in-place.md"
  - "/enhancements/network/baremetal-ipi-network-configuration.md"
  - "https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1034"
  - "/enhancements/network/baremetal-ipi-network-configuration.md"
replaces: N/A
superseded-by: N/A
---

# Automated Workflow for Agent-based Installer

## Summary

"Cluster 0" deployments, for the first cluster in an environment, are
unique because they occur in situations where there may not be a lot
of other infrastructure to support long-running services normally
associated with automated provisioning for on-premises use
cases. Nevertheless, users and partners want to automate these
deployments. The assisted installer GUI provides an excellent user
experience for deploying connected clusters. This enhancement covers

> the *automation* use case for disconnected clusters.

Author: Done

  multipath.
- We want to retain the OpenShift installer's ability to customize a
  deployment with arbitrary manifests.

### Non-Goals

- A user-driven workflow will be described in a separate enhancement.
- A user interface for collecting complex inputs such as per-host
  network settings before running the installation automatically is
  left to a future enhancement.
- Changes to the release image mirroring process are out of scope for
  this enhancement.
- Eliminating the requirement for a separate image registry to host
  the mirrored OpenShift image is left to a future enhancement.
- Describing a mechanism to add and remove nodes from the cluster after
  it is installed is left to a future enhancement.
- Generating image formats other than ISO is left to a future
  enhancement.
- Booting hosts via PXE is left to a future enhancement.
- Creating minimal ISO images with a separate rootfs is left to a
  future enhancement.
- We are not currently considering replacing the IPI installer or
  assisted installer SaaS.
- Describing an end-to-end solution for users without their own
  orchestration tool is left to a future enhancement.

> - Collecting telemetry data for connected deployments is left to a

Author: We're not dealing with telemetry in this document at all, so I've removed the "connected" qualifier.

can present an ISO image to a host virtually, allowing the host to
boot from the image remotely. Hypervisors such as kvm and vSphere also
support booting from ISOs. Therefore, we will concentrate on that
format and approach first. Building minimal ISOs with separate root
filesystems or images that can be used with hosts that PXE boot will
come later.

We propose to leave up to the user's orchestration tool the
responsibilities of managing and storing the images, serving them on
the network, and especially configuring hosts to boot them. This gives
users the flexibility to perform those operations in any way they
like, with whatever tool they prefer. A design for an all encompassing
approach based on tools provided entirely by Red Hat is left for a
later enhancement.

The `agent create-image` command will need file-based inputs to
describe the cluster and node-specific configuration. Using the
existing file and custom resource types allows us to use the same
version management techniques that we do for the APIs within a
cluster.  We will use the `install-config.yaml` format for
cluster-wide settings. We will use a new file, tentatively named

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 4: I asked the same question and haven't received an answer.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 4: To me that conflicts with the goal above:

> - We want to avoid inventing completely new ways to describe OpenShift
  clusters. Therefore we will reuse existing inputs to the installer
  and to tools such as the zero-touch provisioning (ZTP) system in
  multi-cluster engine (MCE).

It also seems very weird to me that we expect users to install cluster0 using these APIs and any additional clusters with ZTP APIs.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 2: ZTP APIs are still there.

Don't forget that this enhancement is eventually going to be followed by one for an interactive workflow where the data from agent-config.yaml is still required (because it's needed to boot the hosts at all), but none of the data from the ZTP manifest or the install-config.yaml is, because the user will enter that through the assisted UI.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer: If there's a gap where the CRDs that make up the ZTP approach don't have those features, because those features are (at least for now) unique to billi, it's a reasonable option to add them as annotations rather than create a new file with its own API. Was that considered and/or ruled out?

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 2: They'll be needed even if there's _no_ ZTP manifests, because you're doing an interactive install. You can't have an annotation on nothing.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer: I guess I'm not following, so maybe another level of detail would make things more clear. Forgive me for mostly stating the obvious.

For on-prem agent-based provisioning with ACM, we would create in InfraEnv, a ClusterDeployment, and an AgentClusterInstall resource. When the UI is involved, it uses a wizard to collect the info that goes in those resources. Those resources are always required to do agent-based installation with ACM.

IIUC, here you're trying to provide a way for a user of this CLI to pass essentially the same information, plus a few additional items that you listed above, which aren't yet covered by CRDs. That user will put the information into one or more text files and then run the CLI.

This document proposes to use the install-config and a new agent-config as the structure for collecting the info in text files. I'm trying to ask, what if we used the CRDs instead, and filled in any small gaps with annotations? Or we could even talk about adding necessary fields to the relevant APIs? Then there would be just one API for defining clusters with on-prem agent-based installs.

Of course the future interactive flow for this tool probably won't use the k8s API as the source of truth (though kcp could make that possible...), but would be more likely to use the REST API. But still, the same basic resources would have to be created, and there are existing translations from CRDs -> rest api resources.

Hopefully this makes more sense.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 2: > IIUC, here you're trying to provide a way for a user of this CLI to pass essentially the same information, plus a few additional items that you listed above, which aren't yet covered by CRDs. That user will put the information into one or more text files and then run the CLI.
> 
> This document proposes to use the install-config and a new agent-config as the structure for collecting the info in text files. I'm trying to ask, what if we used the CRDs instead, and filled in any small gaps with annotations?

To be clear, this document is proposing _both_ of those things.

The user can optionally start with install-config and agent-config, then run `openshift-install agent create manifests` to generate the ZTP CRs. Then using agent-config and either CRs generated in the previous step or ones they've created directly themselves, they can run `openshift-installer agent create image` to generate the ISO.

> Or we could even talk about adding necessary fields to the relevant APIs?

It's never going to make sense to e.g. add an API to specify the node 0 address in ZTP, because there isn't a node 0. I do think that everything will end up being represented somehow in the ZTP CRs, because of the way the installer's asset model works.

> Then there would be just one API for defining clusters with on-prem agent-based installs.

I don't think the existence of the optional install-config -> ZTP CRs step takes anything away from anybody who wants to use the ZTP APIs.

> Of course the future interactive flow for this tool probably won't use the k8s API as the source of truth (though kcp could make that possible...),

I keep hearing this... are people talking about a different kcp to https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp?

> but would be more likely to use the REST API. But still, the same basic resources would have to be created, and there are existing translations from CRDs -> rest api resources.

I guess we could require the user to generate and edit annotations on a bunch of CRs, but that doesn't seem like a very user-friendly way to begin what is supposed to be an interactive install.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer: Thanks for the responses. I'll try to clear up some thoughts from my side.

> It's never going to make sense to e.g. add an API to specify the node 0 address in ZTP, because there isn't a node 0.

Could be. So that's a case where an annotation may be a good fit. It extends the API for a particular use case that isn't broadly applicable. That's a standard pattern for annotations.

> I don't think the existence of the optional install-config -> ZTP CRs step takes anything away from anybody who wants to use the ZTP APIs.

It's just another set of APIs to document, support, lifecycle, etc. And for the user it's another set of APIs to learn, automate against, track changes for over time, etc. It's not the end of the world, but offering one API seems like a better UX than offering two APIs that define the same thing.

> I keep hearing this... are people talking about a different kcp to https://github.com/kcp-dev/kcp?

That's the one. This is future-looking and not central to what I'm asking, but it is interesting! It's a super-simple and cheap way to start a k8s API that mostly just has CRDs. We could run it on node0, add the hive and agent-related CRDs to it, and have assisted-service watch those CRDs like it would in any other k8s control plane. Early on, the kcp folks were even telling a story for compiling kcp into a binary with controllers to make one out-of-the-box artifact; I don't know if that's still something they are pursuing, but it's another possibility.

> I guess we could require the user to generate and edit annotations on a bunch of CRs, but that doesn't seem like a very user-friendly way to begin what is supposed to be an interactive install.

Agreed. I don't think an interactive install involves editing text files at all, right? A UI interactively gets information from the user and creates API resources behind the scenes as it goes along. In this scenario, the format of the cluster definition and related APIs is primarily a concern for the UI developers, not the UI users. Or am I misunderstanding some part of the interactive story?

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 5: As I understand it, even interactive flow will require some input, since billis expectation is that all the isos are generated in advance, right? So in order to all the nodes to find each other, at least node0 ip should be specified somehow. I agree with @mhrivnak though - lets find a way how we add this input to existing crds, rather than adding new yaml that will duplication (will it?) with existing api (at least partially).  we even can think of the operator configmap cr maybe as a place for those values?

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 5: Btw, I assume that at some point, we'll generate billi iso in saas (rather than using cli) - how would it work then?

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 2: > Agreed. I don't think an interactive install involves editing text files at all, right?

Ideally not, but in some places it's unavoidable. e.g. to set up storage multipathing on the root disk, you have to set a kernel command line argument. The only way to do that is to bake it into the image.

> `agent-config.yaml`, for settings that apply to only agent-based

Reviewer 2: So to summarise, I see three concerns in this thread.

1. whether extensions to install-config should go into the same install-config.yaml file or a separate agent-config.yaml file.
2. whether all data will be fully represented in the ZTP manifests
3. whether we should support two different input formats and translation from one to the other.

I think the first one is a red herring. I'm not sure anybody really thinks it makes a difference.

For the second, I think it will have to be. As the installer generates the assets for each target, it deletes the assets that were the inputs to that target (to allow you to edit the output without having it overwritten by the next run - the graph works a bit like `make` except that it doesn't check modification times to see if the output is newer than the input, it just deletes the input). So any data represented at the install-config stage will probably have to be represented somewhere in the ZTP CRs as well lest we lose it. Although the graph thing is slightly bananas, this will force us to keep parity over time so it's probably good in the end.

On the third one, I think we need to face the reality that the ZTP CRs are just not very ergonomic to create from scratch in text files - data is distributed in ways that would be odd to a user (partly because it's designed to be able to define multiple clusters in the same namespace, and we only deal with one cluster here), and linked together using k8s API concepts that make perfect sense in the environment they're designed for, but much less so for a bunch of flat input files that will never hit a k8s API. Even our team has had trouble creating them for testing. AIUI, in the environments where ZTP is used people don't seem to write these CRs by hand, but instead generate them from a SiteConfig.

The purpose of the assisted technologies has always been to provide a user-friendly interface, so it was always my assumption that we would need some simpler input format that could generate the ZTP format CRs to then allow users to customise the more esoteric parts, in a similar way to how IPI installs generate the manifests from the install-config in one step and then the bootstrap from the manifests in a second step. We considered both install-config and SiteConfig for this purpose. We chose the former partly because it is designed to describe a single cluster, whereas SiteConfig is designed for multiple clusters, and partly because of Conway's Law, effectively: SiteConfig is controlled by the telco team and it's difficult to justify having the core product depend on outer layers like that, whereas install-config is already part of the OpenShift org.

> It's just another set of APIs to document, support, lifecycle, etc. And for the user it's another set of APIs to learn, automate against, track changes for over time, etc. It's not the end of the world, but offering one API seems like a better UX than offering two APIs that define the same thing.

This is a fair point, and although the idea of having both formats was my proposal, I've tried to keep an open mind about it, because there is indeed _every possibility that this could be a mistake_. We may look back and wish we had never exposed the ZTP format to the user, and instead kept only the install-config interface that is already well documented, familiar to users, has a well-defined lifecycle that is locked to OpenShift releases, &c. I particularly worry that the way we're accepting ZTP data in particular files with particular names (as opposed to throwing all of the k8s objects from one or more files into a k8s API and letting the controllers figure out what you have) might lead to not being interoperable in practice (or rather, with the data being compatible in only one direction) with ZTP deployments through MCE. And while I initially thought that we needed the ZTP stage so that users could add custom manifests, the interface for doing so is so unergonomic (wrapping the custom manifest in a ConfigMap IIRC) that we will probably need a mechanism where we take raw manifests and wrap them into ZTP format on behalf of the user anyway, at which point exposing the ZTP CRs to users might actually be redundant. So this thread is definitely increasing my doubts.

Still, I've been willing to take the risk because we finally have the opportunity to bring the ZTP and installer APIs together and be able to tell a story about how they relate. That seemed worth it, especially given that the ZTP and ReST APIs are similar enough that we are doing most of the work internally already. Perhaps we should delay to a later stage of development when we have a better idea of how the install-config works alone though. I'd be interested to hear from folks on the team who are closer to the implementation.

Thanks for the thread, it has been thought-provoking.

read-only API endpoints running on node0 will report that data. In the
event of failure, a read-only endpoint in that service will be
available to download any logs that have been collected.

We will be taking advantage of the assisted service's ability to run
the bootstrap services "in place" to avoid having a separate bootstrap
VM. Bootstrap will run on node0, where the assisted service runs, to
ensure that the service and its API are available for as long as
possible.

When bootstrapping completes and node0 reboots, progress monitoring
will need to shift to the OpenShift APIs (`ClusterVersion` and
`ClusterOperator`). We will extend the `openshift-install` binary with
a new sub-command, `agent wait-for-install-complete`, to use both APIs for monitoring
and [progress
reporting](https://github.com/openshift/assisted-service/blob/master/docs/enhancements/installation-progress-bar.md)
in that case, including reporting when steps like validation fail and
the cluster deployment is never going to succeed. *Users will still be
able to write their own monitoring logic using the assisted service
and OpenShift APIs directly, but they will have the option of using

> the command line tool.*

Reviewer 6: On a second thought, I think we could maintain the same command structure of the installer for the `wait-for`. Currently the `wait-for` has two sub-commands:

* `bootstrap-complete` Wait until cluster bootstrapping has completed
* `install-complete`   Wait until the cluster is ready

In the agent based workflow there's a bootstrap that could be potentially monitored (until node0 reboots) to satisfy the first sub-command. 
In this way we could keep more consistent the exposed interface for the end user, by offering a similar set of commands (and still continue to be open to changes)

Author: I think that makes sense. Is there already a pattern of commands with more than 3 components? We would have `agent wait-for install-complete`, for example.

Reviewer 6: Good point, AFAICS the existing commands have a max depth level of two (base command / sub-command). Technically speaking the cobra framework shouldn't provide any limitation on this, so the `agent` base command could be used to provide a firm context for the subsequent commands, which at this point could mimic the usual look'n'feel. Ie, as a side-by-side comparison it could be something like that:

| openshift-install  | openshift-install agent |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| create manifests  | create manifests  |
| create cluster | - |
| - | create image |
| wait-for bootstrap-complete | wait-for bootstrap-complete |
| wait-for install-complete | wait-for install-complete |

Author: I've updated this document to use `wait-for install-complete` as we discussed in the meeting today. We can describe other commands in future enhancements when we decide which ones we need.

between the 2 tools. The risk of this happening is low, because the
API is a relatively simple wrapper for nmstate config content that is
not parsed directly by ZTP. If the API is changed, the new version
will need to be backwards-compatible for ZTP users, which should allow
us to bring the installer up to date without significant impact.

## Design Details

### Open Questions [optional]

1. What do we do with the installation logs?

   - Write them to disk on each host in a way that allows someone
     logging in to find them or allows a Pod to mount the directory
     they are in and `cat` them to be collected via the OpenShift API.
   - Expect the orchestration tool to download them before allowing
     deployment to continue.
   - Can we take advantage of or replicate the installer's [bootstrap
     service
     records](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/6d778f911e79afad8ba2ff4301eda5b5cf4d8e9e/docs/dev/bootstrap_services.md)
     behavior?

2. Is the workflow different for single-node? Do we need to start the
   service and go through the orchestration steps for one node? If we
   don't, how do we handle the validations?

> 3. How do we implement a feature flag in the installer?

Reviewer 2: I think this one is answered - we don't, just build from a separate branch.

Author: I removed this question in eeee5402

### Test Plan

We will implement CI jobs to verify deployment of clusters in all
three topologies (single-node, compact, and HA) using VMs simulating
bare metal hosts. We will configure the jobs so that they run for
changes in the dev-scripts, installer, assisted-service, and
assisted-agent repositories to ensure that regressions are not
introduced.

We will implement end-to-end CI jobs to exercise the
parallel/serial/upgrade suites running periodically as release
informers/blockers to ensure that clusters created by the agent-based
installer meet the expectations of all OpenShift clusters.

We will use unit and functional tests on the installer repository to
test the image generator using different types of inputs.

### Graduation Criteria

We will use a fork or branch of the installer to prototype this work,
and then merge it into the installer repository protected by a feature
flag. The minimum viable version of the new feature will be exposed as
tech preview (deployment failures may not receive immediate attention,
but clusters successfully deployed using the tool will be fully
supported).

#### Dev Preview -> Tech Preview

- Ability to utilize the enhancement end to end

> - The minimum viable version of the new installer may only work in

Reviewer 2: It's not clear if this means that it must work in disconnected to go Tech Preview, or something else.

Author: The first item in the TP->GA list below is to work in disconnected settings. This was trying to express that we might not necessarily get to that feature in the first iteration. Should it be rephrased, or is the statement incorrect?

Reviewer 2: I guess we could download the RHCOS ISO from the internet (the installer already knows where it is) and implement extracting it from the payload. So that's one task we could delay.

Author: Do we know that all of the mirror registry settings can be passed through the various API layers to end up being used correctly? It's fine if it works, I'm just trying to set expectations correctly here.

Reviewer 2: I think if they're not then it won't work at all - nothing magically knows how to find a release image except the install-config defaults. But the RHCOS extraction is a reason to not require disconnected support for TP. I do still expect we'll probably get there anyway.
